The brightly glowing full moon shone through a gap in the low cloud
cover just as Jack launched himself over a narrow alley and landed
lightly on the rough tiles of the next roof. His bare feet made no
sound on contact, but there was a slight grinding groan as the
tiles adjusted to his weight. His heavily callused feet skittering
merrily across the familiar landscape, moving with practiced grace,
and never missing a step. Another alley, and he grinned with joy as
he felt himself sail effortlessly across the man-made chasm.

His imagination roamed unfettered as he alternatively jogged,
stepped, sprinted, and $leaped across the tiled world. Giant hawks
swooped from the sky to fasten upon his outstretched arms and carry
him with swooping ecstasy across a particularly wide gap. Flat
mushrooms grew underfoot at his bidding to cushion his footsteps,
before fading back into the red tile. A gust of dragon's breath
buoyed him through yet another leap.

He padded on carefully. He was close now. Gnomes peered at him from
the peak of the roof, causing him to fear other, real eyes upon
him. His wild imagination needed reining in now, and he did it
sternly. The gnomes sank from view.

The rooves here had grown larger and the chimney's taller, and that
meant rich people. Tiptoeing to the edge of the roof, only a
handspan from a fall that would leave him crippled or dead, he
examined the street below to get his bearings.

He bit his lip and squinted. Three rooftops to go.

Creeping with care in the last dozen yards, he tested each tile
with a tentative foot before applying his weight. A cat screeched
somewhere below and a man swore into the otherwise quiet night.

Jack breathed in a long cool breath of air as he positioned himself
next to a particularly tall and imposing chimney. With wiley
fingers, as callused as his toes, he began to work the first tile
free. Unbidden, he imagined his fingers were the flat hard pincers
he had seen in the foundry, and it seemed to help him grip the
tile. It scraped ever so slightly as he twisted it free of its
brothers, but made no other sound. Placing it on the upside of the
chimney, to guard against the freak misfortune of it sliding off
the steep roof, he attacked the second tile.

With both tiles out, the hole left behind was far too small for an
adult to squeeze through. Yet for Jack's lithe form it was perfect,
and he dangled his feet into the darkness without hesitation, the
gaping unknown giving him not a moment's pause.

Darkness. This was the tricky bit. Keeping his feet on the ceiling
joists and away from the ceiling slats—to keep from falling
through and causing a terrible racket—he began moving back and
forth along the joists, searching with trailing fingers for a
manhole.

His luck being what it was, he had covered most of the ceiling this
way before he found the manhole in the cramped space close to the
eaves. Heart pounding furiously, he gently, ever so gently, pulled
the manhole cover up and into the attic space.

Silence. Still as a mouse in the grass as a cat strolls by, he
listened.

Strange smells wafted up from the hallway below. Rich people's
houses always smelled funny. A very faint light lit the hall runner
and Jack was grateful, as it was hard enough moving around an
unfamiliar house, let alone doing it in pitch darkness.

Assured that nobody was up and about in the house below, Jack
lowered himself into the hallway. Legs dangling, he dropped almost
four feet to the floor. In silence, except for the furious pounding
of the blood in his ears.

He orientated himself by what he knew of the outside of the house
and the position of the kitchen. The kitchen would hold any silver
that the house had. He was not greedy, gold was no doubt kept in
the bedrooms, but he had no desire to pry it from anyone's fingers.

Taking a moment for himself he crouched down on all fours and
pressed his nose against the bare wooden floor on one side of the
runner and took a long slow sniff. It smelled wonderful. Jack had
no idea how they made these magical polished floors, but one day he
wanted one too.

He crept forward with slow and deliberate steps along the hall
runner, its plush fibers completely masking his footfalls. The
house was so quiet that Jack could hear it give the occasional
moan. The light in the hallway was being given off by a turned down
oil lamp just before the landing to the stairs and Jack eyed it
enviously. He'd love to take it, but he would not get much for it,
and the price of oil meant he couldn't use it himself.

Drawing near to the lamp, he noticed a door opposite, wide ajar.

Jack sniffed, and then grinned as he wiped his moist palms against
his dirty trouser legs. Books and leather. This room must be a
study, and studies were often filled with valuables. Trembling
slightly, he unlimbered the lamp and held it high as he entered the
room. He gave the door a gentle, tentative push. It creaked softly.

This was not Jack's first creaky door. He placed the lamp on the
floor, clear of the doorway, and then put his shoulder against the
edge of the door, pushing $towards its hinges and lifting slightly
as he swung it slowly and carefully closed. Not the slightest peep.
With it closed, he was free to explore in some peace.

The first thing he did was unlatch and open the window. It made
some noise, but it also meant that he could not be trapped. He hung
his head briefy out the window to see where he was exactly, and
then started turning the room over.

One wall was completely taken up by books, and although Jack could
not read, he gravitated toward them, fascinated. It was not
something he could move, but he sensed that there was great wealth
there. He then turned his attention to the desk. It was beautiful,
like almost everything in the room. The silver paperweight and
matching letter opener were the first to make their way into the
folds of his black coat. Pulling a drawer open he was confronted
with a shallow wooden box, he opened it quickly and was
disappointed to find a crystal. It was clearly valuable, but Jack
would never be able to sell it. He almost put it back, but on
impulse he slipped it into his baggy oversized coat as well. He
opened the opposite drawer.

This drawer was filled with small glass vials. A shiver of unease
shook Jack. He had never seen anything like it, yet it made him
close the drawer quickly. Suddenly, a muffled curse sounded out in
the hallway, and before the sound had faded Jack moved to the
window and swung his legs out. He paused, watching the door with
baited breath.

The door swung inward with a sharp creak!

Jack jumped from the window with a $flourish, his coat tails
flapping wildly in the wind as the ground rushed up to meet him. He
stretched out his arms, high above his head, looking like a frog
that had just launched itself from a lilypad. Contact with the
ground brought his knees up and arms down in one fluid motion that
turned into a roll and had him up in a fraction of a moment,
sprinting for an open alley. Another curse issued from the second
story window he had just leapt from, and then a muffled exhalation.

Instinctively, Jack bounced sharply off the alley wall toward the
opposite side, expecting an arrow. There was a muffled pop, like a
smashed glass bottle, and then a sizzling and hissing. Stumbling,
he fetched up against the opposite wall and turned wide-eyed to see
the wall, which he had just bounced from with his bare hands,
dissolve behind a screen of billowing black smoke.

He scrambled a few yards farther down the alley, the slick, evil
smelling refuse on the ground coating his hands before he found his
feet again and ran on. He shot a look behind him to see if he was
being persued, but couldn't see clearly through the tears that had
begun to well in his eyes, let alone through the noxious smoke.

"I've screwed up bad this time Mardy," he managed to sob as he
sprinted, the hairs on the back of his neck through to his scalp
tingling with alarm.

---

He made it home in very short order, having practically skipped
over the heads of the few lurkers who were awake in the early hours
before sunrise. Pimps, prostitutes, drunks, theives, watchers, and the odd
legitimately industrious individual whose work required them to
begin in the small hours of the day. Jack knew how to avoid
confrontation, which given his size, was absolutely necessary.

Candle light flickered through the second floor window of a room
that he shared with Mardy and the other three unwanted children. In
any city where children had any value at all, they would be called
orphans. But not in this city.

His small informal family was lucky though, there were
roughly twenty tiny partitioned rooms like theirs on that floor,
and only a bare handful had a window. Of course some people
preferred not to have a window because it made them harder to rob.
Jack had to admit somewhat wryly that that was a good point.

Until only two months ago, they had all been living in the shanty
town, but that had changed when Stine had gotten his job at the
foundry. His modest scrip and Mardy's was enough, with what Jack
stole, the beggings of Hat and Snot, to keep them in this much
safer area.

It had been Mardy's idea to move. There had been six of them, Mardy
was always taking in strays, but the baby had gotten sick for no
good reason that Jack could see. Just one of those things. But
Mardy blamed the shanty town, saying that it was not a healthy
place to live. Mardy had ambitions, she did not want to live in the
shanty town forever. She wanted to live in a real house, like the
people she hauled laundry for. She said that people who lived in
houses did not get sick like we did in the shanty.

Jack liked the idea of living in a house, so he had not mentioned
that just as many people had died in houses as in the shanty town
during the great sickness that had swept through two years ago.
None of his family had died then.

Jack climbed the wall opposite their building, the mudbricks laid
haphazardly enough, even with the limewash applied, for him to do
it with ease. He peered in on his family. Mardy was the eldest and
the toughest of them, and she was up already, as usual. Her job
washing clothes down by the river started before dawn, hauling
dirty laundry from people's houses with the other girls.

A metallic rattle sounded in the middle distance.

<i>Was that armour? A scabbard?</i> He stared at the flagstones of
a nearby corner with the intensity of a prowling cat, though the
sound was at least one street over. He needed to go. He turned his
eyes back to the window, wishing that Stine, his adoptive big
brother, would get up so he could see his ugly mug one last time.
Nothing. Even Mardy was gone.

Jack dropped back to the ground, carefully missing a hole that a
dog had dug in the dirt of the street. His throat was heavy with
the tears his eyes wanted to shed, but he pushed them down.
Instead, his brow furrowed in thought as he headed $towards Marten's
den. Marten's rats would still be out and about in the city, but
the big rat would be in his hole. Jack needed a safe place to stay,
somewhere outside the city, and he had a growing hope that Marten
could help with that.

Shortly thereafter Jack arrived at the den. Gaps in the door
revealed a flickering light from within, letting Jack know that
someone was definitely at home.

He tapped gently at the door. It might have been a real door at
some stage, but now it was mostly rotted away, with the bottom foot
or so completely gone, and a chunk missing from the upper right
corner. The wood looked so dessicated and brittle, with green and
white mould finishing the look, that Jack was pretty sure that even
he could kick it in. That would have been a huge mistake though.
The door stayed closed because the man behind the door insisted
that it stayed closed. That was the only reason. He continued his
gently tapping until he heard someone stir within.

The door opened quietly in on the dark interior, candlelight
flickering in the draught.

"Who is it?" I heard Marten's voice call out from within.

"Looks like the kid who got beaten by the city guard last week,"
came the reply from the guy at the door, his pocked-marked face
learing from behind the tattered wood.

Jack flushed. It had not been a beating. A kick up the bum at best.
He scowled at the greasy-haired, pocked-face door holder; but not
too hard, since Jack knew he was also a large and heavy-boned lad
who enjoyed punching people in the head.

Be bold, he told himself, and he strode into the hovel with his
head high, a scant moment before Marten said, "OK."

"I want onto the farm," said Jack in a firm voice, making out
Marten and one other person sitting with their backs to the wall in
the gloom.

The long lean-to had a poorly maintained thatch roof and straw
covered dirt floor that filled the space with the strong smell of
mould, but Sadel, Marten's woman, fought it with scents of thyme
and rosemary. The combination was not pleasant to Jack's nose.

"What farm?" came Marten's confused and slightly contemptuous
reply.

That only confirmed Jack's knowledge that there was a thief guild
farm. He had heard it referred to in passing by two separate
sources, so Marten's evasions were not going to fly.

Marten himself was not a large, imposing figure. He was skinny,
softly spoken, and seemed almost delicate. Yet his reputation was
far more fierce than his outward appearance gave credence. He had
been the head of this district of the theives guild for almost five
years, having quietly disposed of the former incumbent before Jack
had grown a self-preservatory interest in local politics. In that
time, Jack had not heard a single whisper of anyone ever crossing
him in even the most minor of ways and living to tell of it.

"I know about the farm," Jack replied, his voice flat and steady.
He did not allow any excitement or anxiety to seep into his voice.
He knew it was vital not to be drawn into any kind of confusion in
this setting.

"You don't know shit, midget!" swore Sadel, her voice edged with a
screech that set Jack's nerves jangling. He hated her. He hated her
because she was dangerous.

"I know about the farm," Jack did not budge by the slightest
degree.

Jack had only been in here twice in the time that he had been
actively theiving. Once when he first began, to establish his right
to work, and once again during a dispute with another thief. Both
times he had treaded most carefully to avoid setting off Sadel. He
had had plenty of time to consider the dynamic between the two, and
Jack was certain he knew exactly why Marten kept Sadel close by.
She was his dog.

Of course, not a literal dog. Just the crazy animal in the room
that removed the element of logic far enough away from the
discourse to present Marten's power to its full advantage. Marten
himself was too logical, too methodical. He relied on Sadel to sew
enough uncertainty and discord for him to work the angles. Jack
could admire the strategy while hating being its target.

"The farm is not a free service, imp," Marten relented, "How do you
intend to pay your way?"

Sadel shot to her feet, her pinched face intense. Jack knew she
wanted to hurt him for getting past her defences. She stalked up to
his side to stare down menacingly at him. She was half a head
taller than Jack, but he managed to ignore her.

"I can afford it," Jack said, a touch quickly.

Someone Jack had not noticed in the concealed recesses of the long
lean-to shifted in the darkness, revealing his or her presence.
Jack's eyes shifted quickly before he could control himself.

"I haven't even given you a price yet," Marten rejoined, shaking
his head ever so slightly in doubt of Jack's means.

"You can't afford it you little shit," Sadel growled, practically
in his ear.

Jack smelled something unpleasant on a waft of Sadel's breath, and
turned his head slightly away with an ostentacious grimace. He
heard her hiss.

"But first," Marten asked, raising his voice slightly with the
developing situation, "why do you need it?"

"Just a little heat I may have picked up," Jack replied in what he
imagined was his coolest tone.

"No one spends time on the farm on the strength of a bad feeling
Jack," Marten surprised Jack by remembering his name, "you know
exactly who wants you, and you'll be out on your ear if you don't
tell me now."

Jack's insides fell in a rush. He had not prepared to spin a cover
story of what he was really running from. He would just have to
risk telling the truth. Still, that was not a particularly pleasant
truth. He held his tongue for several moments, fighting with
himself, before giving in.

"A malkemist."

Marten had been sitting quietly since Jack entered the room, but
now he went completely still.

A moment passed, then two. Sadel was alternatively looking to
Marten and then Jack, alarm growing on her face.

Marten said nothing further, just flicked his fingers $towards the
door.

Sadel pounced, a slap catching Jack behind the ear with surprising
force. She was giving off a strange whine of outrage, as though she
wanted to scream, but was holding it in. She punched and kicked
Jack $towards the door, and Jack did not resist. He wanted out just
as quickly as she wanted him out. As Jack half stumbled at the
door, she gave him a kick up the rear that propelled him forward
and caused him to catch a foot on the threshold, sending him to the
ground outside in a graceless sprawl.

"Get away from here and don't come back!" cursed Sadel in an
intense but carrying whisper.

She stood glaring at him for a few moments, Jack busy rolling to
his feet and putting distance between himself and her, before the
doorkeeper all but pushed her out of the way to set the door closed
again.

It seemed that the thieves guild was just as scared of the
malkemists as everyone else. He wondered why he had thought it
might be different. Malkemists did things that should have been
impossible. They scared people. Even people who made a living not
being scared of a great many things.

Jack still needed to get out of town. He would just have to do it
without help. He started down the alley, another plan forming. He
had only walked a dozen steps when he heard the door move again.

"Hey boy! Come back," called the doorkeeper.

Marten must have decided that there was more advantage in
presenting Jack for reward than simply abandoning him to his own
devices.

Jack ran.

The doorman made a noise that sounded like a growl, a bark, and a
shout all rolled into one, and came lumbering out of the lean-to.
Jack barely touched the dirt with his bare feet as he hared off,
leaping adroitly over a deep washout channel that rain had formed
in the street. He moved so far and fast in bare moments that the
doorman gave only token pursuit, giving up almost as soon as he had
started. Jack would have laughed in his face if he had dared turn
back.

It was just as well he did not indulge himself. With his eyes
forward, he got the jump on one of Marten's rats walking back up to
base before the poor sod even knew he should be giving chasing.

Marten's lean-to was at the border between the mudbrick palaces, as
Jack's family called them, and the shanty town. The shanty town
built itself out of any material that promised to last more than a
week. The mudbrick palaces were built with compressed straw and
mud bricks, with a lime wash that sealed and protected it from the
elements. The rich however, built with stone, and that was where
Jack was headed now. Toward the town proper where the buildings
became permanent structures made of stone, tile, and well seasoned
hardwoods.

Years of snooping around these areas, avoiding the attentions of
zealous guards, had endowed Jack with the skills he needed to move
through these cobbled streets undetected. It was not lost on him
that the town guard seemed to be out in unusual force, marching
rounds and sitting on street corners. Jack had his work cut out
avoiding them all.

He had two fences that he used. This one in the town proper,
and one among the mud palaces, run by a goldsmith that Jack knew as
Rat Tail. He did have a real name, but Jack had never heard it. Rat
Tail worked closely with Marten, and Jack had no idea how quickly
Marten would send out the word to pick him up.

Fortunately, Jack had not always been the most scrupulous guild
member, and the majority of his jobs were done outside the
knowledge of the guild. Getting caught would have meant death at
any time, but Jack had always been a couple of steps ahead of the
plods who even tried to follow him through these streets. That
meant that he had had to fence through a contact that had
absolutely nothing to do with Marten, his rats, or the thieves
guild. Rat Tail would have ratted him out in an instant if he
showed unusual activity. Fencing his stolen metal through an upper
class contact also paid better.

Enter Rouger. Jack had found Rouger very deliberately. He knew what
he needed, and using what he knew about Rat Tail's profession,
goldsmithing, he had set out to develop more of these contacts. He
had haunted the town proper for a month, first discovering all of
the goldsmith shops that existed, and then observing them each
individually. He had found another fence like Rat Tail almost
immediately, but that was not what he wanted. A fence like Rat
Tail had a master to report to, and that was exactly what Jack
wanted to avoid.

Instead, he had searched for the weak link among the remaining
"honest" goldsmiths, those that had no familiar faces entering at
odd hours. It really had not taken long to uncover Rouger's poor
reputation in the marketplace. His business practices should have
had him in a dungeon somewhere long since, but to Jack's
puzzlement, he continued on in trade unmolested. It was his first
lesson in the importance of framing how you stole, rather than what
you stole.

Jack's first approach to Rouger had been bumpy to say the least,
but the man had soon warmed up when he realized there was coin to
be made. It helped that he was an imbecile.

---

Rouger was a middle aged man with a growing midsection and terrible
breath. Both of which could probably be blamed on his fondness for
sweet pastries and strong cheeses. He was also a terrible
insomniac, which is the reason he was wide awake and at his
workbench when he heard three hollow taps from the square porthole
in his workroom floor. His palms instantly began to sweat with
anticipation, despite the general chill. This was often his
favourite time of the day, but that did not stop him grumbling as
he took a wooden mallet from the shelf to knock free the chocks
that kept the waxed wooden pallet in place over the sewer below.
The waxed pallet prevented the stench from entering the workroom
and it was quite a shock when he finally plucked it free.

In his haste he had forgotten to lay straw on the stone beside the
porthole, and he quickly strew some from a hessian bag. He rubbed
his nightcap over his bald head to scrape at an idle itch as the
black-haired boy climbed quickly out accompanied by a cloud of
putrid air. The boy was thin, but not unhealthy. It was the leaness
of youthful activity, not starvation. His face was smooth and
pimple free, which just meant that he had not hit pubity yet.

Rouger quickly replaced the pallet to block the smell of the sewer
and chaffed his hands together in anticipation. The boy did not
smile, he never smiled. He just darted his dark, glittering eyes
around the room quickly before settling them on Rouger.

"Well! Let's see it boy!" Rouger grumbled.

The boy slipped a hand into his tattered coat and drew forth a
knife, almost causing Rouger to step back fearfully before he
$recognised the letter opener. He snatched it from the boy, angry
with him for the scare. The feel of the cool silver in his hand was
enough to convince him that it was real. His mouth jerked up into
an involuntarily smile.

"Anything else?"

A small wooden box and a silver elephant statue came out of the
boy's coat, the silver looking far too heavy to have been carried
by the worn fabric. Rouger almost laughed at the incongruity. When
the paperweight plonked heavily into his palm he felt his teeth
bare with pleasure, though his mood soured when he noticed the
boy's eyes watching him keenly from his grime covered face. Rouger
placed the two silver items onto his scale dish.

"What's that?" asked Rouger, eyeing the pretty box.

"Nothing." said Jack, moving to replace it in his coat.

Rouger grabbed the boy's wrist in one deft hand and plucked the box
from his grasp. The boy was clever enough not to complain.

The box was delicately inlaid with mother of pearl. The whole box
was covered with intricately interwoven leaves. A heavy silver
swing catch bound the two halves of the box together, but if there
was a hinge it was carefully concealed.

Rouger licked his thin lips as he pressed a thumb against the
bottom of the catch, and then almost dropped the box as the lid
swung open in his hand.

"You idiot!" cried Rouger, "Do you know what you've done?"

He swung a backhand at the boy's head, but the boy ducked under it
with surprising agility. Frustrated and enraged he kicked at the
boy instead and propelled him clear off his patch of straw, which he
immediately regretted as the boy's fouly besmirched feet padded
over his floor.

Rouger's head was swimming now with terrible scenarios, not least
of which was a couple of malkemist warlocks disintegrating his
front door and melting his corpulent self down for some kind of
soap in retribution. He squeezed his head between both hands, the
edge of the now closed box digging into his scalp, trying to think
clearly as his heart began to pound more and more furiously. He
could actually feel each distinct heartbeat thump in his chest.

He had to sacrifice the boy.

He lunged at the boy but he danced out the way with a hiss. Rouger
would not be able to catch him with speed. Instead, he slowly
shepherded the boy into a corner, blocking off all escape until he
had nowhere to go. He finally caught the skinny whippet with a
gleeful cry.

Dragging him back to the manhole he fetched out a pair of irons
that he kept for thieves at his shop and shackled the boy to his
workbench. He had dropped the box in the scuffle and he looked
around to retrieve it.

Suddenly there was a loud knock on the front door of his shop and
he cringed as a bolt of terror ripped through him. Malkemists?
Already? He met the boy's eyes. The idiot did not seem to
understand the danger at all, or if he did, he was not showing it.
Idiot!

"Sirness, let me go!" the boy demanded.

Rouger ignored him. He grabbed the letter opener and paperweight
from his workbench and rushed out of his workroom toward his shop,
almost tripping in his haste. He sparked the lamp at the back of
the shop to life and stowed the ill-gotten silver on a nearby
shelf. He then hurried toward the front door before $realising that
he was still in his nightgown and sleeping cap, backtracking in
sweaty consternation to quickly change into his shop robes and
goldsmith hat.

The door was being pounded with a lot more force now, and Rouger
called out, beside himself.

"Wait, wait good Sirness, I'm coming!" he screeched, jowls
wobbling.

There was silence as Rouger began pulling the iron bolts on the
heavy wooden shopfront door. He took a moment with the last bolt to
wonder if he really did want to open the door before throwing it
back as well.

It was with some relief that he met the faces of two men from the
city guard, their hats showing middling rank. Rouger almost smiled.

It turned out to be a horrible prank of happenstance, because just
behind the two stood a very tall man with the pointy black hat of a
malkemist perched upon his head. His eyes were intense and
unforgiving.

"Do you mind if we come in good Sirness?" asked the malkemist, not
a sliver of a smile in his voice.

Rouger was struck dumb. He wanted to protest the hour, give some
excuse, but instead he just stood there with his mouth open. The
malkemist took his silence for consent and strode between the
guardsmen, and would have stepped on Rouger if he had not given way
at the last moment. Without further leave he strode boldly toward
the back of the shop and with absolutely terrifying and unerring
accuracy to the shelf that held the recently purloined silver.

"Seize him," spoke the malkemist like a death knell.

Rouger's legs gave out just as they grabbed him and the two burly
guardsmen had some trouble keeping his bulk upright.

"Bring him, the rest is through here," called the malkemist,
pointing to the workroom, his gaze on some device in his hand.

Rouger was recovering himself now, his mind railing against his
cowardly constitution to pry survival from this terrible situation.

"I caught him. The thief. He's in my workroom," Rouger declared
with some force.

The malkemist's gaze turned from whatever was in his hand to regard
Rouger.

"Indeed," was all he said, striding toward the workroom.

The two guardsmen had to half carry, half drag Rouger to the
workroom, his legs simply were not working the way that they
should. The sight that greeted him drove him to his knees.

The boy was gone.

It took several moments for Rouger to process what he was seeing.
The shackles hung limp from his workbench, almost invisible except
that he was looking for them. The chocks and mallet were gone, as
was the straw that he had thrown on the floor. For a crazy moment
Rouger wondered if he had dreamed the boy coming. Then the
malkemist bent over and retrieved something from the floor. It was
the wooden box. The malkemist thumbed it open.

His disappointment was palpable.

"Where is the crystal?" he asked, eyes boring into Rouger's.

Rouger did not know.

---

Jack moved as swiftly as he could through the putrid waters of the
sewer. He had spent long hours with his feet soaking in these
turbid flows and he had developed his own very particular way of
walking down here to avoid splashing himself. He could have risen
to the streets almost immediately after climbing down from Rouger's
shop, but he felt safer in the sewer. He doubted the malkemists
would pursue anyone down here.

The darkness within was almost complete. Occasionally a poorly
sealed port would allow a shaft of light from the recently risen
sun to break through the murk, but those were generally few and far
between. He was mostly blind.

A intersecting tunnel yawned to his left, his ears telling him
immediately as the noise of his own passing disappeared into the
space, echoes vanishing. His skin registered the slight current of
air that stirred here. He was a master in this darkness, anyone who
wanted to find him down here would be using a torch or lantern.
They would be easy to avoid. He had unseemly familiarity with these
ways, given how his mere presence in the streets above was likely
to provoke an unpleasant response from the city guard, whether he
wore his best coat or not.

He only owned one coat. It was his best.

An errant beam of light illuminated a small patch of stone ahead,
recalling to Jack that the construction of this sewer had been the
work of malkemists. Something to do with the mortar that bound the
individual stones together and made it strong enough to support the
earth, roads, and buildings above. Stine had explained it to him,
but he had forgotten the important part he was sure. Remembering it
at all made him uneasy. The malkemists must have come down here to
oversee the work, perhaps they even had maps of these tunnels.

A plague of rats skittered and screeched somewhere ahead as Jack
approached, but he did not bother to slow at all for their alarm.
Rats were common down here. There was only one thing that found its
way into these stony tunnels that could give Jack pause, save for
the unexpected appearance of a malkemist, and they were much bigger
than rats.  Their growls and razor sharp teeth could set his bones
shaking in his flesh. Jack would backtrack a long, long way, or
wait for hours to avoid them.

Recalling their sharp, intelligent, and challenging eyes made him
bare his own teeth in a feral display. He particularly hated the
one chained outside Rat Tail's shop. Why the man thought it was a
good idea to keep one so close, Jack had no idea. It could not be
good for business. It would lunge aggressively at random passers-by
and seemed to take special pleasure in tormenting Jack himself.
Still, it was chained and could be avoided. The ones that roamed
the streets were lawless, staking out territory and only giving it
away grudgingly. There were stories of them being so bold as to
steal babies off the backs of their mothers. To meet one down here
was the stuff of Jack's nightmares.

Shaking himself, Jack folded up the cuff of his left arm. It had
been rubbing against the graze he had taken freeing himself from
Rouger's manacles. He gave it a quick lick.

He was both lucky and unlucky that the water only made it halfway
up his calf. Lucky because he did not want it any higher, and
unlucky because the stench was worse when the water was low.

His plans were quickly adjusted themselves to the disappointments of
the past hour. Even if he had no help and no scrip or coin, he was
still free to leave town. The trick would be surviving after that.
He knew that he could not go to another town. What little he did
know about the malkemists told him that if he did not get far
enough away from the tracker, the tracker would run him down. If he
went to another town, the tracker might visit and pick up his
trail. Thinking on it, he did not know how they had found him so
quickly, but it confirmed the stories he had heard of their
skill.

He had no contacts outside of Corsisan. He had lived his entire life
until recently in the shanty town. If he was to survive, he would
have to find work in the country. He was clever enough to know that
trying to steal in a place he was not familiar with would likely
lead to disaster. He was a successful thief in Corsisan because he
always knew it better than anyone who set out to catch him. Anyone
other than a malkemist that is. Malkemists did not need to bother
with knowing the streets better than him. They were cheaters.

Jack stopped still for a moment, pondering the ill-luck that had
dropped him into this dire situation. How was it that they could
find him at all? The silver? The box? He had left them behind in
Rouger's workroom. A chill spread up his spine and he grabbed the
crystal through the cloth of his coat, tucked snuggly in an inner
pocket. Could they follow the crystal? No. At least, he did not
think the crystal was necessary for them to follow him, there must
be a more foolproof way, since not everyone they tracked stole
something from them. He toyed briefly with the idea of dropping the
crystal right there and then in the urine and excrement ladden
water flowing past his calves.

No. He would need something to sell if he hoped to survive. With
his mind made up he started moving again. He was close to the way
out he had decided to use.

There were two large sewer exits that emptied into rough earthen
channels in the shanty town, but it would be far too easy for the
malkemists to nab him there. He would be like a pidgeon in the
sights of a slinger. As good as dead.

This was far better place, a quiet corner of the mud palaces.
There was even a well nearby he could wash up at, and then he would
make his way to the north road. The only problem was that there
would be women taking water from the well, and they might chase him
off.

As comfortable as he was in the dark, it was always a relief to be
able to use his eyes again, and he was feeling the slight
excitement of contact with the sun. A fleeting half smile played
across his lips.

Suddenly, a low, bass, growl filled the tunnel, setting off a
terrible echo. A second growl joined the first. Both were soft
sounds, but the menace was a clear as a bell.

Dogs. Jack hated dogs. But as much as he hated them, he feared them
more. He could not see them in the dark, but they were close, and
they were between him and his exit. He stepped backwards slowing
and carefully, his tongue still prickling with shock, wondering if
he should pull his knife, and if it would come to that.

Without warning a light flared to life behind him and Jack did
something completely out of character.

He turned his back on the dogs.

Flinging an arm up to protect his eyes against the glare, he
squinted to make out who had snuck up behind him.

Angrily his voice burst from him, "Who are you? What do you want?"

He was surprised at the lack of fear in this voice. Emboldened by the
strength he heard there, he gathered his wits to bluff himself free.

With disgust and simmering anger, the holder of the light cut him
off with a slightly muffled voice, "Shut up!"

Those two words would not have shup Jack up all by themselves, but
the delivery chilled any desire he had to cross the speaker. That
and the fact that the dogs had suddenly gone eerily silent.

"I swear, if you so much as kick up a droplet of this shit on me,
you'll have no place to sit for a week." The disembodied male voice
paused for a moment, "If you're thinking that's how you can get by
me, forget it. If I have to, I'll swim through this to catch you. I
won't like it, but I'll do it!"

The light source, Jack could not decide what it was, moved
dizzyingly for a moment as the bearer transferred it from a hand to
his chest somehow, giving Jack a quick glimpse of a bare, black
haired head and a scarf covered face.

<i>Not a malkemist?</i> Jack thought.

There was a metallic jangle as the man continued, "It won't come to
that will it? For one, you look like a smart kid. Second, Goss and
Boss back there will pull you down quicker than a lightning strike.

"Those two are crazy," he groused, and then continued, to Jack's
amazement, in an affectionate yet disgusted tone, "I think they
actually like it down here."

Jack flicked his head back around long enough to catch a glimpse of
two sets of very intent disembodied eyes glowing out at him from
the darkness, looking like anything but objects of affection.

The man held out something to Jack, and in a voice that had
returned to its ill $humour he instructed, "Clap those on kid."

When Jack did not immediately jump to obey, the man growled in
eerie mimicry of his pets.

Distinctly and slowly he said, "Put them on. Or it will hurt."

Jack did as he had been told. Noticing with dread that these were
much better shackles than the ones he had slipped in Rouger's
workroom. These shackles held his hands close together at the
front, and the man carefully turned Jack and encircled his waist
with two extra chains that fastened at Jack's back; preventing him
from lifting his arms from his waist.

Jack saw the two dogs clearly for the first time, and he took an
involuntary step back only to collide with the man fastening his
chains, earning him a painful push and tug.

They were monsters! Huge beasts with relentlessly intent and
pitiless stares. Jack felt like a cornered hare, and imagined a
challenge in their jutting postures.

<i>Run</i>, they urged. <i>Run. We will give you a short lead
friend.</i>

Jack smelled mint. He turned to beg the man to let him go. He would
promise anything to be away from those dogs. He immediately felt a
cool wet mist puff into his face that caused him to give a panicked
cry and push away, only to fetch up short on the end of the chain
that was now attached to the man.

"Hold still idiot!" The man punctuated his growl with a flick of
knuckles to side of Jack's head.

Jack got another puff of something to the face while he held his
breath and then several more around his person.

"What—" Jack began before he caught the implacable eyes of his
captor. The light shining brightly on his chest casting lurid
shadows over his eyes sockets and brows. As Jack's eyes slid away
from that gaze he noticed that the smell of mint was coming from
the scarf over the man's face.

"Let's go," ordered his masked captor, swinging Jack back $towards
the way he had come with surprising care and gentleness. Ruined by
the subsequent terse warning, "Don't kick anything up."

***

Jack had expected to be led above ground, but instead the man had
prodded him through the sewers in darkness after extinguishing his
light. He was not a talkative man, and the only communication since
Jack's capture had been the odd warning growl whenever his feet
kicked up a splash.

Jack had heard nothing at all from the two giant beasts.

"We're here. Don't do anything stupid."

The light came back on, and Jack saw the hand and footholds that
led to a porthole above. He stepped $towards the first rung.

"Uh uh, you go last," said the man, pulling Jack up short.

Jack stepped back to let the man through, taking the moment to look
back for the dogs. They were gone. He nervously swung his head
around, just in case they had circled around, but there was no
sight of them. They had vanished.

The chain connecting Jack to the man's waist was climbing higher
and higher as he went up the footholds, and Jack heard several dull
thumps that sounded like the man's fist on the porthole above.

Moments passed. The man thumped again. Jack could almost hear a
growl growing in the man, but before it could manifest, the
porthole suddenly pulled away and real light rushed down into the
sewer, forcing Jack to look away with a pained wince.

"Halem! You're late," came an unfamiliar male voice from above, the
tone mocking, not angry.

"Shut yer face," replied Halem more or less conversationally, which
only elicited a nervous titter from the other man.

Jack force himself to squint into the light, knowing that he had to
keep his wits about him. If an opportunity to escape presented
itself he wanted to be able to see well enough to be able to take
it. However, as he did so he began to notice the most incredible
thing about his captor's boots and trousers. They were covered in
some shiny, wet substance, transparent and wobbly. It jiggled
slightly each time Halem stepped to the next foothold. Jack's
curiosity was intense.

<i>What is that?</i>

He was so fascinated he began climbing the rungs himself without
thinking. He was halfway up before he $realised that the rungs
under his hands were dry. Halem had not carried any of the sewer
out with him. Jack looked down past his own rolled up trouser legs
to confirm that his feet were wet.

They were definitely wet, and worse besides.

Halem was climbing out already and Jack felt a tug on his chain,
the links cracking him behind the ear as Halem used up all the
slack.

"Hurry up!" Halem ordered.

Jack scurried up, the soft skin behind his ear smarting, and
emerged into a small private courtyard awash with daylight. The man
standing besides Halem wore a malkemist's pointed black hat, but
looked to be a shabby looking specimen of the type. Halem was half
a head taller, and bore himself much more proudly, despite the fact
that he had just crawled from a sewer.

Halem reached into his coat and withdrew a small glass ampule. He
touched it to each jiggling mass encasing his legs and feet, and to
Jack's astonishment, the mass was sucked in by the ampule. Within
two heartbeats it was as though they had never existed. Halem
replaced the ampule in his coat.

He then removed the scarf from his face, and Jack got his first
look at the man who had captured him. The color of his eyes looked
funny somehow in the sunlight, in a way that Jack could not quite
put his finger on. His skin was tan, and his black moustache,
goatee, and narrow sideburns were sharp and immaculately groomed.

"Water," said Halem.

Jack was confused, but it was the malkemist who jumped to action,
moving to the private well and casting a pail into its depths. Jack
did a double take. These must be an extraordinarily wealthy people
to have a well in a private enclosed courtyard. Jack turned to see
the house. It was large and imposing, and fastidiously maintained.
The windows were glass, a rare extravagance. Even the royal
appartments on the hill did not have glass windows installed
throughout.

The pail was dumped unceremoniously beside Jack, water sloshing
over the sides, and Jack took to it tentatively, cupping water to
rinse his legs below the knee.

"Catch!"

  Jack looked up just in time to catch a fresh bar of soap. He
sniffed at it suspiciously. He had seen soap before, just not so
much of it, and nothing scented like this one. The rare worn down
bits he had used still smelled a little like the animal they came
from. Nevertheless, he lathered his legs, losing the bar several
times in the process. It might have disappeared down into the
sewer, if not for the fact that Halem had knocked the porthole back
into place moments before.

While Jack was rinsing soap from his legs, Halem reached into his
coat and withdrew a compact wad of black cloth. He gave it a
peculiar shake and in the next instant he had a malkemist's hat in
hand. He gave it two ostentacious and quite unnecessary dustings
before placing the pointed hat on his head.

Jack eyed him warily, though he had been almost completely sure he
was a malkemist the moment he say the jelly around his legs. Halem
raised an eyebrow, but said nothing.

By the time Jack was clean and most of the smell of the sewer gone,
the less distinquished malkemist had disappeared inside the large
house. Halem was quiet, but did not seem exceptionally put out or
impatient in any way.

"Let's go," he said, gesturing in an unexpectedly cordial manner.

There was no use in struggling. Halem was a big man, and the chain
between them was proof against any evasions that Jack might try, so
he entered the house through the indicated open double door. Halem
closed the door behind them, and then to Jack's surprise,
unfastened his chains and shackles. Before Jack could think to take
advantage, he was propelled through another door into a waiting
audience.

Jack froze as soon as his feet came to rest. In front of him was a
corpulent malkemist in a chair large enough to be a throne. The fat
man radiated disgust and made annoyed shooing sounds and gestures
toward Jack as soon as he caught his balance. It took Jack a few
moments to $realised that he was standing on a rug.  He stepped off
gingerly, trying to keep his eyes down.

"Keep your monkey off the expensive ones, soldier!" scolded the fat
man.

"He's your monkey, Master Nuth, not mine. I just fetched him for
you," replied soldier Halem.

There was silence for a moment, and Jack risked a glance upwards to
see Master Nuth glaring across the room at Halem. The sight
reminded him of Sadel, and Jack decided that he was dangerous
straight away. The master's eyes rolled up and to the right
theatrically, and he flicked his hand out into space as though
ridding himself of some clinging morsel of food.

He demanded peevishly, "well, does he have it?"

"He did," replied Halem unhelpfully. A few moments passed before he
pulled something from his pocket in an unhurried manner and tossed
it to the shabby malkemist from outside, who promptly threatened to
drop it amid several sharply indrawn breaths.

"Oh by the Grand Imaginer, why I allow you to stay Malkum! Give it
here now!" exclaimed the master in disgust.

"Yes sirness, sorry sirness," mumbled Malkum as he made his way to
the master, almost tripping on the rug as he went. Jack heard a
snigger from one of the other malkemists in the room, of which he
counted only three that had not been introduced.

The master's eyes glittered with avarice as he received the crystal
into his fat fingered grasp. Though he remembered himself enough to
wave Malkum off with irritation when he remained to hover.

"It's beautiful," he gushed, seeming to lose himself in a moment of
genuine pleasure. Yet his rapture was short lived because his
attention returned to Jack almost immediately. He fixed the boy
with a coyish look from beneath a lowered brow. The look may have
worked for him in his youth, but the effect now was little short of
disturbing.

"My rival would probably have your entrails out by now, stomping on
them with petty relish! You've quite lucky I found you first," he
declared self indulgently. He directed his next question rhetorically
to everyone else in the room, "But what am I to do with him?"

With barely a pause he answered himself, "You didn't steal from me.
And, truth be told, your escapades have enriched me to the
detriment of my enemy. A most happy happenstance."

He smiled in a terribly self-satisfied way, like a man who has won
a contest and knows that there will be no rematch to even the
score.

"But," he continued, "what's the expression Pravil?"

He turned to the trio of malkemists to his right, seated by the
long table, but did not wait for a response, "If you prick one, we
all bleed?"

He chuckled, thinking it was a splendid joke, and indeed, there
were several smirks.

Jack took the moment to shift his body slightly and turn to look at
Halem behind him. The man's face was impassive, but Jack turned
back without having taken special notice of his $demeanour.

"Unfortunately, my hands as you no doubt see, are tied. I will do
you to courtesy of making it quite clean and painless. You do
deserve..." he never got to finish the thought.

Jack sprang backwards and collided with Halem, he twisted into the
man's grasp while his quick fingers worked the man's coat. Halem
pushed him off almost immediately, but Jack did not mind at all
since as he spun free he raised a pilfered vial triumphantly into
the air.

"Get back!" he screamed warningly. "Or I'll blow us all to hell!"

A stunned silence descended on the room. Not the fearful silence
that Jack had expected, more a speculative silence, a weighing
silence. Jack did not like it one bit. He had positioned himself on
the rug, far enough from everyone else in the room that they could
not possibly grab him before he cast the vial. No one seemed
concerned that his feet were once more soiling the floor coverings.

"I said, I'll blow us all to hell!" reiterated Jack, in what he
hoped was a clearer voice.

"Oh, we heard you boy. But what, exactly, do..." the master began.

Fate it seemed was not content to allow Master Nuth to finish his
sentences. Suddenly an arm wrapped around Jack's chest and another
grabbed at his raised arm. Convulsively he threw the vial down
before it could be trapped. It sped from his hand, but at the same
time Jack had plenty of time to appreciate he was still not being
taken seriously. With the vial released, the malkemists did not
react with fear or panic, they were laughing. He used up the moment
before impact wondering what it was they knew that he did not.
That, and squeezing his eyes tightly shut.

Boom! It was a gloriously satisfying sound to Jack's ears. It was
also an order of magnitude louder than he had expected. So loud,
that he was momentarily struck dumb by it. He only barely heard the
cry of alarm from the person holding him as he or she released him.
He felt multiple bites on his legs and arms, and as the thunder of
the explosion itself receded a cacophony of raised voices and
curses.

Jack opened his eyes on pandemonium.

Malkum, bless his subservient heart, had thrown himself selflessly
over Master Nuth in an admirable attempt to shield the latter.
Unfortunately, it did not seem to have protected the master one
jot, as his face seemed to have been gotten in the way of the same
biting stings that had landed on Jack's legs. One cut under his
right eye looked particularly nasty. The master's initial surprise
and pain were quickly giving way to annoyance and then anger as
Malkum struggled ineffectively to get up and remove the burden of
himself from Master Nuth.

Of the three malkemists by the long table, two were rolling around
on the ground clutching at themselves, but the third was on his
feet, encased from head to foot in the same substance Jack had seen
Halem use in the sewer.

The rug was a disaster. A three foot circular section had been
obliterated, revealing the stone floor, now streaked with what
looked like white powder and surrounded by singed and blackened
$fibres.

The person who had grabbed Jack from behind turned out to be a
woman, and she was staring in shock at the hole in the rug,
uncaring of the droplets of blood that had begun to well through
the cuts on her face and arms

Jack's gaze swung to Halem, only to find the soldier already
watching him as he rose from a kneeling pose. He alone seemed
unaffected by the explosion. They held each other's eye for several
moments.

Jack tried anyway.

Jack had played this game with the town guards on several
occasions. He would first run straight at them offering his arm as
an easy target for capture. When the guard tried to take hold of
him by the arm, he would spin opposite the thumb of the grip and
already be far enough beyond to be impossible to catch. Simple yet
effective.

Halem did not take the arm, nor did he grab at Jack's coat. Jack
could already see that things had gone pear-shaped, but he
continued on by attempting to spin around Halem nonetheless, even
though the man had not committed himself and was in no way
unbalanced. The soldier simply stepped in at the last moment and
took Jack around the waist. A moment of struggle latter, and he had
both of Jack's arms pinned to his sides.

Master Nuth had been cursing throughout, but his voice reached a
cresendo as he rolled poor Malkem ignominiously to the floor with a
thud.

"What the hell was in that vial Soldier Halem?!" Master Nuth
demanded in an indecorous screech.

"Mint."

"What?! Talk sense man!"

"It was a simple scent. Mint."

"That's impossible! Did you confuse your store?" queried Nuth, his
tone implying the worst of anyone who could do such a thing.

But Halem was equanimous in the face of the accusation, "No, I just
finished using it. It was the scent of mint. The vill was
distinctive. I $recognised it in the boy's hand.

Voices had begun to call out from other parts of the house and
footsteps were pounding down the hall. Faces appeared at the door,
taking in the ruin of the rug and the general disorder. Master Nuff
subsided back into his gigantic chair with an equally gigantic
huff.

He gestured in mild disgust at his rug with an open hand, but the
best he could articulate was a expletive, "urgh!"

"Varlay, get him out of here." said Master Nuth, but after a moment
he continued more specifically, "Put him in the holding room. And
keep him chained. I need to consider this."

Halem simply nodded and manhandled Jack through the gathering
spectators, his hands like bands of steel around Jack's upper arms.

***

The soldier marched Jack to his cell and propelled him into the
room without excessive force before locking the door with a thrown
bolt from the outside.

Jack was alone. He was also unchained, which puzzled him, but since
the only window was a series of slats that let light and air into
the room, and the door was locked, he really did not see much
advantage.

Jack almost laughed when he took stock of his situation more
thoroughly and $realised that a holding room for a malkemist meant
the height of luxury for him. There was a bed with actual feathers,
a chair, and desk. A basin of water had been hauled to the room and
there was a refuse bucket. If he did not have the threat of death
over his head, he would have been thanking his lucky stars.

Snot and Hat would be wondering where he had gotten to by now,
since he was usually back to their room long before they went out
to beg, but they would not think it too strange. It would be when
he did not show up before sunset that everyone would start to
worry. Jack had never failed to come home. They would be right to
worry.

A sudden thought struck him. What if Stine went to Marten to see if
he had any word of Jack? Would Marten have any reason to land Stine
in hot water? He just hoped that they worried quietly among
themselves rather than trying to track him down.

There was nothing that Jack could do at present, so he washed his
face and curled up on the bed. At first the softness disconcerted
him and he felt mildly anxious about being swallowed by its soft
folds. He imagined telling Snot and Hat about such a bed, a bed big
enough for all three of them to sleep on. He smiled thinking about
it. The very next thing he knew there was a scrape, followed by the
door closing and the clunk of the bolt being locked once more. Jack
was up in a moment, bleary-eyed, only to see that a tray of food
had been deposited by the door.

He $realised that he must have slept afterall, and from the
sunlight streaming through the slats of his window, well past
midday. Padding to the door he fell upon the tray with ravenous
delight. Freshly baked bread, a slab of butter, and lentil soup. He
scarfed down the fare as quickly as he could get it into his mouth,
which led quite quickly to a painful block in his $oesophagus. He
cleared it by forcing it down with some water and then ate more
slowly. He finished the entire tray while squatting in front of the
door.

Satiated he washed his face and went back to the bed. As he lay
there pondering how he might get used to a bed like this, he fell
asleep yet again.

***

Jack was running, running from yowls and yaps that persued him down
endless lengths of stone tunnel. Strangely he could see each $grey
stone perfectly and the redish-brown mortar that helped the tunnel
forbid the crushing weight of the earth above. The floor of the
tunnel was completely bare and clean. Not a drop of water lay on
the ground, yet he still felt like his legs were dragging through a
thick liquid. The dogs behind him were gaining ground every moment,
their noisy pursuit growing louder and louder. The closer they
drew, the harder it was to run. Soon, he had slowed so badly that
he was barely movely forward at all and panic gripped his heart. No
matter how hard he pushed his feet, he could not make them move
faster; he could barely make them move at all. His legs began to
ached with the effort to drive them forward. That's when he saw the
malkemist ahead, tall and dark. While everything else was bright
and clear, the malkemist was shrouded in shadow, his face hidden.

With a flick of the wrist the malkemist struck Jack with a
well-aimed globule of liquid. It struck his sternum and spread like
wildfire around his body, encasing his legs and feet in the same
thick and jiggling liquid he had seen on the soldier Halem. It did
not stop there though, instead it climbed to his neck and then
cascaded down his arms, $immobilising every muscle it touched. Then
is slithered its slow way up his neck, cool and slimey to the
touch. It covered his ears, his lower jaw, and mounted the back of
his neck to finally cover every strand of hair on his head.

Then, as Jack's heart beat harder and harder in his chest, and the
baying of the dogs reached a cresendo that he could hear even
through the liquid over his ears, he opened his mouth to scream. As
though waiting for just that signal to pounce, the liquid rushed in
and smothered him, cutting off his breath. He struggled and pushed,
but his muscles would not move. His eyes could not even open
against the slime over his face. It was going to smother him to
death and no one would know how he died.

***

Jack's eyes flew opened in darkness and he struggled to draw
breath, but air would not enter his mouth or nose. A great weight
pressed down on his body, and though he struggled, he could not sit
up against it.

He felt something shift on his face, and suddenly he could breath
through his nose again, just barely. Through the last vestiges of
sleep and the panic of suffocation, his brain $recognized the scent
of mint as air thundered in and out of his nose.

"Shh. I am taking you out, but you'll need to be quiet. Swallow if
you understand," spoke a calm quiet voice very close to Jack's ear.

Jack dutifully swallowed, and was rewarded with the slow withdrawal
of the meaty palm that had been covering his mouth, and then the
man's body. Jack could not help taking a thorough deep breath that
stretched his chest. Not surprisingly, he was wide awake.

"Stay close to me and I can guarantee that you'll live through the
next two days at least, but I'll need you to want to live,"
whispered Halem.

Jack nodded stupidly in the semi-dark, noticing that the sun had
set and precious little light was coming in through the window. He
was about to grunt in acknowledgment when Halem continued.

"Good. We should get going then."

Jack could only puzzled briefly over how Halem could see him in the
gloom because the man was already at the door and inching it open.
Light streamed in from outside and silhouetted Halem as he quickly
checked that noone was in the hall outside. Jack was by him in a
moment.

"Are we going into the sewer again?" Jack asked in a whisper.

Halem rolled his eyes in exasperation and fixed Jack with an
intense look.

"First, keep your mouth shut," he answered in a whisper that was
louder than Jack's own, "and second, no, we won't be going into the
sewer."

This malkemist was irritatingly arrogant and Jack felt the impulse
to show him up somehow.

"You going to put me in shackles?" Jack asked insolently.

"What? No!" whispered back the soldier, "I'm here to get you out,
how would shackles help numbskull?!"

He noticed how close Jack was to him suddenly and hissed, "Stay
away from my coat, the next time you pull a vill from me it'll be
with broken fingers."

"The next time I pull a..." Jack retorted, but Halem had already
crept too far down the hall for him to hear, forcing Jack to
swallow the taunt while he rushed to keep up. He noticed with an
uncomfortable stirring of respect that Halem moved very quietly. He
would make an excellent thief.

The sentiment faded somewhat when he $realised that Halem basically
intended to walk out the way they had come in. At each footfall he
expected an alarm to be raised, or their way blocked by a bevy of
malkemists. By the time they were within yards of the double doors
to the rear courtyard, Jack was scratching at hives and thinking
that everything was going far too smoothly. It could not be so
simple. He felt disaster practically breathing down his neck.

They slipped out the back door and walked across the courtyard to
the large gate that guarded the back wall of the house. There was
a small post built into the wall, and within, a guard. At last,
Halem's plan was going to hit a snag.

But as they walked boldly up to the guard post, it became quite
obvious that the guard was soundly asleep. Jack almost snorted in
disgust. Halem gave the oblivious guard a smart salute and let
himself out the back gate. He then gave Jack a flowery sweeping bow
and flourish as he exited the postern, the type that might be
reserved for a visiting noble. Jack frowned furiously at the
mockery, his cheeks heating, but fortunately he was much more
concerned about the rider in the alley to take it too much to
heart.

Halem signalled the rider to approach, then turned to Jack and said
in a voice completely devoid of remorse, "I am sorry about this my
boy."

He sprayed Jack square in the face with the same mist he had used
down in the sewers, following almost exactly the same pattern as
before.

Jack snorted angrilly, which only caused Halem to chuckle.

"What was that for?!" Jack demanded in a whisper.

"Sorry, no time for questions, we have to get going," Halem harried.
"You will have to ride with me."

Jack opened his mouth to protest, but Halem scooped him up by the
waist and one leg and threw him bodily upon the horse as the
waiting rider trotted up with her. There was no leather saddle, as
was common for most mounts that Jack had seen, just a riding
blanket. Jack noticed that the hooves of the horses were curiously
muffled. Halem was up behind Jack in a moment. The other rider
released the reins of his horse and rode on ahead.

Meanwhile Jack was squeezing his legs and holding on for dear life.
He had never been this close to a horse before, let alone touching
or riding one. Even at a walk, Jack could feel the terrifying power
of the creature.

Then, after some subtle urging by Halem, it began to trot and the
true torture began. He braced his hands in terrified $rigour over
the horse's withers, and at each jarring pace he had to tense his
legs and arms to avoid being sawn in half. Or at least, that is how
it felt. Within a few minutes he was exhausted.

He certainly had no resources left over to determine where they
were going, though he was desperately interested in knowing.
Occasionally Halem would jostle him back to $centre when he
threatened to slide off either side.

To Jack's immense relief the ride was blessedly short. In the end
they pulled into a stable that was ready and waiting for them, and
the stable doors closed smoothly on their heels. Jack had
completely failed to gain his bearings.

He tried to throw himself off the horse almost immediately, but
Halem kept him in his seat, such as it was, until he himself had
slid off. When Jack finally made the ground, his legs could hardly
support him. He found the way Halem was smiling at him almost
intolerable. His scowl was at risk of becoming permanent.

"Follow me, you should meet your rescuer," Halem said to Jack, and
then to their fellow rider, "Are you coming up Melanie?"

Jack started slightly at discovering the other rider was a woman.

"No, I'll go talk to him later."

"Varlay," replied Halem amicably.

"After you urchin," he said to Jack, indicating for Jack to go in
first.

From the stable they passed through a narrow corridor of stone and
into a large kitchen. The smells coming from a large stove were
heavenly, but Halem seemed to have no interest in the food. From
the kitchen, they entered an equally large foyer. Jack eyed the
front door, but followed Halem's lead when he pointed to the
staircase. Jack's legs complained on the stairs, burning in
uncomfortable places with each step. However his physical
discomfort was completely forgotten when he reached the landing.
Scalp tingling, he stared down the hall, and it's distinctive smell
hit him.

He knew this hallway. He had been here only last night. The
wall-mounted lamp glowed merrily, as though welcoming him back.

Halem rested a gentle hand on Jack's shoulder.

"In you go," he said, gesturing to the study on the right.

"You tricked me!" Jack hissed emphatically, feeling shocked and
betrayed.

"I tricked a lot of people today, but relax, I think I left you
out. This doesn't mean what you're thinking it means."

He tried to pat Jack's shoulder, but Jack pulled back sharply.
Halem snorted in amusement.

"In you go," he repeated, an edge of the implacable in his voice.

Jack entered the study more ashamed than scared. He had been
$outmanoeuvred on a grand scale and thoroughly thrashed on his home
turf. He heard Halem follow him in and close the door, but Jack
could not lift his eyes from the floor.

"He seems more bashful than I expected," opined an unfamiliar
voice.

"Never fear, he has his moments," replied Halem.

"The plith crystal?"

"Here," Halem affirmed, moving forward.

Jack snuck a peek from beneath his lowered brow as Halem deposited
the crystal in the other man's hand. He was a little taller than
halem.

"That's wonderful," he said with obvious relief, "perfect."

Halem went and sat in a plush chair by one of the bookcases. He
nonchalantly knocked his knuckles against the top of a small end
table by the chair and a hidden platform rose into view, filled
with crystal glassware and a whiskey decanting stand.

A solid silver decanting stand.

The soldier caught Jack's eye with a crass lack of tact and idly
stroked the silverware with a knowing smirk before pouring himself
off some refreshment.

Jack was so engrossed that he missed some of what the tall man was
saying.

"... of what you saw?"

"Absolutely Master Amoth, there's no mistaking what happened. The
only question is why," replied Halem.

Master Amoth considered Jack, and then asked "Well Jack, what do
you think happened?

"Of course I know your name," he said, responding to Jack's look of
surprise, "Your goldsmith friend was hardly the soul of
discretion."

"I don't know what you're talking about," Jack said.

"You don't remember setting off a rapid expander under Master
Nuth's nose?"

"Oh, you mean the boom?"

Amoth smiled, "What a quaint vernacular. Yes, the boom."

Jack shugged, "I just threw it."

Master Amoth shared a look with Halem, then turned back in time to
see Jack eyeing the window.

"You'll excuse me if I took the precaution of locking the
shutters," he smiled wryly, "it was an impressive jump, but I do
not want to see it repeated."

Jack examined the floor instead.

"Do you have someone who can send him up-country?" asked Halem.

Amoth looked up sharply, "you can't do it?"

"I didn't reveal myself to the Reds. I will go back tonight."

"Really?! That's good news! You're much more valuable there. But
how did you manage it?"

Halem grinned, "I set a rapid expander in the boy's window slats. A
boom. They'll be thinking you tracked him with your terrifying
powers and plucked him from their holding cell. The dummy plith
should have dissolved by now too, so that'll be another mystery for
them."

The tall man laughed delightedly.

"I want to go home," said Jack softly, as the laughter settled
down.

The two men shared another meaningful glance.

"There's a couple of reasons you can't go back," explained Master
Amoth. "For one, Master Nuth will pick up your trace as soon as the
masking villend wears off, and I don't see him forgetting about you
in a hurry. Second ..."

"The masking what?" Jack interrupted.

Master Amoth took a deep and slightly unsteady breath, as though
gathering himself to make a complex explanation, but Soldier Halem
beat him to it.

"Come here lad," he beckoned conspiratorially, his eyes earnest.

Jack approached hesitantly, his eyes on the soldier's coat lining
as he opened it.

"Closer, closer," he urged, opening the coat some more and...
spraying him full in the face with the same liquid he had used
on Jack twice already.

Jack snorted in annoyance and backed off quickly, glaring at the
soldier.

Halem shrugged off Jack's indignation and smiled smugly, "Well, you
asked. That's masking villend. It obscures the signature of a
person or object that a tracking villend uses to find them.
Unfortunately, the mask only works for a couple of hours. Half a
day at most."

"Obviously," elaborated Amoth, "we cannot let Nuth get his chubby
and ill-bred fingers on you, so we'll send you to a safe place to
lie low. You can't risk telling anyone that we are getting you out
of town, because it would place them in danger. Imagine what might
happen to them if they spoke that kind of thing into the wrong
ear."

Master Amoth waited for acknowledgement from Jack before he
continued. Jack nodded slowly.

"I will $organise transport and protection for you to get to
safety. Not even Master Nuth would dare pursue you where I'm
sending you."

"Why are you helping me?" asked Jack, "I stole from you."

"Well, technically, you only borrowed from me, as I have recovered
everything that you took. Other than that, you can consider it my
great pleasure to thwart any ardent desire of the reprobate Master
Nuth," answered Master Amoth, though Jack noticed that he answering
nothing at all.

Halem climbed out of his plush chair suddenly and bid Master Amoth
goodnight.

"No game?" asked Master Amoth, eyes eager.

"No, I don't have time," Halem replied with regret.

Winking at Jack, he was almost out the door before Master Amoth
called out for him to send Emily up.

When Emily, a mousy woman in a brown dress, poked her head around
the door a minute later, Master Amoth waved her in.

"Emily, meet Jack. Jack, Emily," he introduced efficiently. "Emily
will settle you in Jack."

It was a dismissal.

Emily wasted no time leading Jack out, but as the door closed,
Master Amoth called through the narrowing gap.

"Remember what I said Jack. Contacting anyone will put them in
grave danger."

"This way, Jack," Emily instructed, descending the stairs. "Would
you like a bath?"

Jack shook his head $vigourously.

"Varley, relax," she reassured, though somewhat disgustedly, "your
choice."

"I'll introduce you to Minnie first, then show you to your room. I
don't know you, so I'm going to warn you straight up, whether you
need it or not. Do not talk back to Minnie, even if you think she's
saying the craziest bobble you've ever heard," she paused a moment,
"Master Amoth himself doesn't correct Minnie or tell her what to
do, understand?"

Jack just nodded.

He almost took an involuntary step backwards when he caught sight
of Minnie. She was the largest woman he had ever seen. She had her
back to them as they entered, and though she was on the other side
of a large bench, he still had trouble shaking the impression of
physical menace. Jack was used to almost everyone he interacted
with being bigger than him, but this was different.

"Minnie, I have another mouth for you to feed," Emily called.

Minnie looked over her shoulder with the distracted air of someone
who was concentrating and just wanted the peace to continue
concentrating.

"Wait," she called back in a deep and husky voice that still
managed to sound feminine.

Moments later she swung around and fixed her eyes on Jack, and the
first words out of her mouth were, "What is it?"

Emily tried to answer, but Minnie was answering her questions for
herself. Thank you very much!

"A dirty street rat! Why is it in my beautiful kitchen? Who thought
it was a good idea to bring this filth into my kitchen? Ah, that
Master Amoth, that's who. Never a care for putting me out that
one."

Seeing Jack's mounting terror, she continued.

"I'm sure it isn't your fault poor one, you're likely an innocent
in all of this. It is Master Amoth's doing for sure.  Minnie could
I have duck tonight? Minnie, why can't I eat your orange flan out
of season? Minnie, feed my guests at odd hours? And now this! A
filthy beggar in my kitchen. No offense my boy. It's too much! I
have a mind to march right up those stairs and give him a piece of
my mind! But then, that wouldn't solve the problem of this dirty
rat in my kitchen would it? No. It would just make it worse! That's
what I'm thinking. He's gone and dumped this problem in my lap like
it's my job to clean every filthy thing that traipses into this
house. I never had this trouble with his father. That was a
respectful and gentle sirness if ever there was one."

Minnie kept going. There was little in the way of pause as she
moved around the room punctuating her more forceful points with
thrusts of the ladel in her hand. She pulled a brass banded tub,
which looked to be at least double Jack's weight off, fromthe wall
with not so much as a feigned grunt for Jack's peace of mind.

"I was boiling this water for something else, but I see I have to
sacrifice it for the greater good now." she sighed.

She pulled a large pot from the stove and swung it with uncanny
dexterity from side to side as she walked it across the room to the
tub. She emptied all ten gallons into the tub, then scooped more
from a standing reservoir in the corner.

She tested the water with a sausage-like finger.

"Good enough. Now for the salts."

She fetched a small wooden barrel and threw a handful of white
powder into the water, then repeated this with another barrel.

She advanced on Jack ominously. He looked around for support from
Emily, only to $realise that Emily had long since left the room,
closing the door to the foyer behind her. Too late Jack decided to
dodge.

Minnie's powerful right hand caught Jack by the scruff of the neck
and he became as compliant as a bunny within the blink of an eye.
She flicked his hat off, stripped him of his coat, and made
similarly short work of his trousers and shirt. Minnie's $monologue
did not falter throughout.

"... you go, just as nature intended..."

She dropped him bodily into the tub and he yowled in anguish as the
hot water scalded his skin. He tried to rise, but she just forced
him back into the water.

"... best keep your complaints to yourself..."

She took to him with a boar bristle brush from nowhere, threatening
to tear his skin off at every stroke. He mewled piteously, but
Minnie was pitiless and merciless in the face of his torment.

When she scrubbed behind his ear, he tried to fend off the sharp
bristles, but that only earned him a painful crack to the head with
the wooden backside. Minnie was not one to be casually thwarted.

"... lovely shade of pink you've come up..."

She pushed his head under the water while he panicked, yet he did
not dare resist. She rubbed oiled fingers through his hair roughly,
time after time, then brushed it through with a fine silver comb.
Once it was unknotted, she trimmed his hair with quick deft cuts of
her scissors. A literal first for Jack, who had only ever had
haircuts from a knife.

"Out you jump," she ordered.

Emily was back, but Jack was not bashful about being naked in front
of anyone. She was holding up pants and a shirt made of the same
material. They looked nowhere near as sturdy as his own beloved
clothing, lying discarded on the wet floor.

"$Pyjamas!" exclaimed Emily, "A little big, but we can shorten the
legs and arms."

Minnie was already towelling Jack dry as gently as she was able,
which is to say, not gently at all. Then in one final indignity she
puffed scented powder in his face, behind his ears, and between his
toes, before releasing him to climb into the flimsy $pyjamas.

While Emily fussed at his cuffs, pinning the hems of his pants so
that the new hem hung just above his heel, he was forced to admit
to himself that he smelled quite nice. 

"... whip you up something to eat."

Then something extraordinary happened. Minnie stopped speaking. At
stove she was as silent as the grave, but Jack had no time to
puzzle over the change because Emily was demanding his attention.

"Sit down and I'll finish this off for now with a basting stitch so
you're not tripping over yourself," Emily offered.

Jack sat on a stool by the central bench and watched in fascination
as Emily threaded a needle with deft movements. She then knotted
the thread and clipped the small excess with a tiny pair of shears.

Kneeling by his leg, she poked the needle from the inside to the
outside and pulled the thread through until it caught on the knot.
Then with quick, economical movements, she ran the needle through
four or five folds of the material at a time before pulling the
thread through to reveal multiple near perfect stitches.

As she worked, her cool hands incidentally bumped the sensitive
skin on the top of Jack's feet. Sometimes a light brush, at others
a rougher contact with more force. All the while Jack stared down
in mute fascination, his head cocked bird-like to the side. A
strange feeling was growing somewhere between his belly button and
his nipples, a place where he was only used to feeling stabs of
anxiety and panic. It spread like a dull warm glow from his $centre
and infused every limb. He imagined blue butterflies perched
delicately on the two twists of hair she kept at the sides of her
head to keep it up and out of her face.

He was completely infatuated with her by the time she finished the
second hem.

Minnie slid a wooden tray across the bench to Jack. It held a bowl
of soup and two thick slices of bread.

"Butter?" queried Minnie.

"Butter?" Jack repeated dumbly.

"Yes, Butter. Do you want butter?"

"I guess."

"I guess what?" challenged Minnie crossly.

"I guess... so?" replied Jack in confusion.

"Please! Say please!"

"Please," Jack said promptly.

Minnie seemed poorly satisfied, but she quickly conjured up two
slabs of pale yellow something, which Jack naturally assumed must
be butter, and deposited on the lightly toasted bread.

Jack, never a fussy eater, bit down on the bread and butter, and
was rewarded by the best tasting bread he had ever eaten. The
slightly salty butter, with its satisfying fatty texture completed
the bread in a way that exceeded his narrow expectations of bread.

"No! No! No! That's no way to eat. I didn't clean you up so you
could eat like a boar at a trough. You're going to soil those nice
$pyjamas Miss Emily went to the trouble of getting for you. You're
making me regret not drowning your sorry butt in the tub. Eat like
a gentleman, or there will ..."

Minnie kept going, but Jack had stopped eating. He put his hands at
his sides and just sat there, a torn but unchewed piece of bread
poking out from the side of his mouth.

"... there is no need to stop eating boy, just eat slowly. I've
never seen a child eat like you ..."

Jack ventured a slow bite at the bread that was already in his
mouth, then another.

"... not with your mouth open, do you think anyone here wants to
see what's going on in your stomach? Close your yapper when you
chew. I will slap the uncouth out of ..."

He closed his mouth and swallowed. Hesitantly he reached for
another piece of bread.

"... the soup first boy! You can't finish the bread before you've
even tasted the soup. Here take this spoon and ..."

Minnie took the solid silver spoon from the side of the tray,
polished it absently with her apron, and skimmed some soup;
scooping from front to back.

"... the way to eat soup ..."

She then put it to Jack's lips to sip. It was delicious!

"... your turn. Mind you don't spill it on yourself. Sip over the
bowl, not your lap..."

Jack took the proffered spoon and scooped and sipped as he had been
shown. It was frustrating, but the taste more than made it worth
his while.

Emily had a big smile on her face as she watched Minnie
alternatively scold and instruct Jack in the niceties of tableside
ettiquette. For some reason, that made it much more enjoyable for
Jack. He was not smiling, but he was not miserable either. He had
just eaten some of the fatty duck in the soup and he was honestly
wondering how anyone could possibly make such perfect food.

"... now comes the best part, and certainly it will appeal to your
natural inclination. Dip the bread into the soup and eat it
like..."

Jack did as instructed, though he had certainly mastered this part
long ago. Minnie kept talking. She seemed not to stop when she was
excited. Within a short span the meal was finished, and Minnie
prompted him for, and got, a "Thank you."

Jack yawned mightily.

"... cover your mouth when you..."

He nodded sleepily.

"Varlay Jack, I think it's time to show you to your bed. Goodnight
Minnie," said Emily.

Jack was so sleepy that he did not even try to palm the silverware
as Emily urged him out of his seat. Nor did he hear anything else
that Minnie may have said. A part of his awareness told him that he
should not be so sleepy, since he had slept most of the day away,
but the rest of him did not care. In short order he was in a bed
even more luxurious than the one he had slept in during the day.
Emily had made him wash his hands and wash his mouth out with salty
water, and then tucked him into a bed with actual sheets and a
blanket.

***

He dreamed of unexpected puffs of wet mist in his face.

***

Jack woke to the sensation of falling a bare instant before he hit
the floor with a thud. It took him several moments to remember
exactly where he was, and could only narrow it down to the
malkemist's home. He did not remember going to sleep very clearly
at all. More embarrassed than hurt, he was just thankful that no
one was around to see him struggle to kick himself free of his
tangled blanket. 

The bed he had just fallen from was suspended on a frame just
higher than his knee, which in light of what had just happened, he
did not think was a particularly inspired idea.

As he stood up he $realised two things. First, that there was light
streaming through the slats of the shuttered window, telling him
that he had slept unusually long. And second, that he really needed
to pee.

He looked around the room for the bucket that should be there for
the purpose, but there was no bucket. In the mudbrick palaces, he
used a dilapidated bucket that was always threatening to fall apart
and escape its lowly role, but which never actually gave up the
ghost. In the shanty town he had done his business directly into an
open air latrine from a rickety platform suspended above it on thin
poles.

Here there was nothing. It seemed while his other circumstances
were slowly improving, this particular area was always getting
worse. A latrine was no work for him, but a bucket meant work, as
he was generally the one who had to empty it.

Now he could not go at all! Surely malkemists had a better way!

He hurriedly opened the door and stepped out. Fortunately he
$recognised the foyer from there and immediately rushed to the
kitchen, where Minnie looked up as he entered. He jiggled
up-and-down and from side-to-side, completely discarding his
dignity, and was rewarded with a vague gesture $towards the
stables.

He rushed down the short connecting corridor and then noticed
another door that he had not seen on his way into the house. It
seemed like a much more likely place to keep a latrine than a
stable, so he took it, and was relieved that it led outside into a
relatively narrow courtyard, only a dozen feet wide, but three
times as long. There was a raised flower bed by the side of the
house, and a tiny wooden house at the far end. But nowhere could he
see what he needed. In the end, in desperation, he stepped up on
the low stone wall of the raised bed and whizzed among some pretty
yellow flowers. His relief was intense.

"I wouldn't let Minnie catch you doing that. Those are her
flowers," said Master Amoth as he exited from the tiny house at the
end of the courtyard.

"The toilet is free," he said, thumbing over his shoulder at the
tiny house as he passed Jack by.

Jack finished up and decided he would investigate what this
"toilet" was later.

Back in the kitchen Minnie turned on him immediately, "Wash your
hands! Goodness knows what you touched"

To Jack's surprise, those words were not the beginning of a tirade.
She was busy beating at something in a bowl, and it seems to
consume all of her concentration. He washed his hands at a basin
that he vaguely remember was what it was for.

If he had expected that he would be able to eat when he sat down by
the bench, he would have been disappointed.




******************************************************************
$realising $realised $recognised $leaped $flourish $towards $humour
$demeanour $fibres $oesophagus $grey $immobilising $rigour $centre
$outmanoeuvred $organise $vigourously $monologue $immobilising
$Pyjamas $pyjamas

Mon Feb 20 11:00:02 SGT 2017     10387
Tue Feb 21 00:12:37 SGT 2017     11200
Wed Feb 22 23:30:21 SGT 2017     12771
Thu Feb 23 23:31:39 SGT 2017     13202
Sat Feb 25 00:27:46 SGT 2017     14474
Sun Feb 26 00:30:52 SGT 2017     15476
Sun Feb 26 22:12:49 SGT 2017     16542
Tue Feb 28 00:38:27 SGT 2017     17533
                                 (2383) Of outline.

Tue Feb 28 15:11:26 SGT 2017     15150
Tue Feb 28 23:18:36 SGT 2017     15757
